---
layout:     post
title:      "Cross-site Request Forgery"
date:       2014-01-02 12:00:00
author:     "QPan"
keyword:    "CSRF, OWASP"
type:       "IT"
header-img: "assets/img/posts/header-IT.jpg"
---

# [](#header-1)Cross-site Request Forgery (CSRF)

- [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-site_request_forgery)
- OWASP
    - [XSS](https://owasp.org/www-community/attacks/csrf/)
    - [Cheat Sheet](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/index.html)
    - [Github](https://github.com/OWASP/www-community)

**Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF)** is an attack that forces an end user to execute unwanted actions on a web application in which they’re currently authenticated. With a little help of social engineering (such as sending a link via email or chat), an attacker may trick the users of a web application into executing actions of the attacker’s choosing. If the victim is a normal user, a successful CSRF attack can force the user to perform state changing requests like transferring funds, changing their email address, and so forth. If the victim is an administrative account, CSRF can compromise the entire web application.

In a CSRF attack, the attacker's goal is to cause an innocent victim to unknowingly submit a maliciously crafted web request to a website that the victim has privileged access to. This web request can be crafted to include URL parameters, cookies and other data that appear normal to the web server processing the request. At risk are web applications that perform actions based on input from trusted and authenticated users without requiring the user to authorize the specific action. A user who is authenticated by a cookie saved in the user's web browser could unknowingly send an HTTP request to a site that trusts the user and thereby causes an unwanted action.

CSRF commonly has the following characteristics:

- It involves sites that rely on a user's identity.
- It exploits the site's trust in that identity.
- It tricks the user's browser into sending HTTP requests to a target site.
- It involves HTTP requests that have side effects.

## [](#header-2)References

OWASP [Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF) Prevention Cheat Sheet](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Cross-Site_Request_Forgery_Prevention_Cheat_Sheet.html)

