---
title: "BDD"
categories:
  - SD
tags:
  - Software
  - Engineering
last_modified_at: 2015-03-05T12:00:00-01:00
---

**[Behavior-Driven Development, BDD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Behavior-driven_development)**, is an Agile software development process that encourages collaboration among developers, QA and non-technical or business participants in a software project.

TOC

- [Principles of BDD](#principles-of-bdd)
- [Behavioral specifications](#behavioral-specifications)
- [Resources](#resources)
  - [Java](#java)
    - [JBehave](#jbehave)
  - [Selenium](#selenium)
  - [Javascript](#javascript)
    - [Karma](#karma)
    - [Protractor, Angular](#protractor-angular)


It encourages teams to use conversation and concrete examples to formalize a shared understanding of how the application should behave. It emerged from test-driven development (TDD). Behavior-driven development combines the general techniques and principles of TDD with ideas from domain-driven design and object-oriented analysis and design to provide software development and management teams with shared tools and a shared process to collaborate on software development.

> Similar process as TDD at the level of features, based on user needs.
> Use natural languages to create examples by structuring a bridge between "world of programming" and "natural language".
> To make the examples executable: Scenarios (how the software behaves from the stand point of user).

## Principles of BDD

**Test-Driven Development (TDD)** is a software-development methodology which essentially states that for each unit of software, a software developer must:

- `define` a test set for the unit first
- `make` the tests fail
- `then` implement the unit
- `finally` verify that the implementation of the unit makes the tests succeed


## Behavioral specifications

BDD specifies that business analysts and developers should collaborate in this area and should specify behavior in terms of **user stories**, which are each explicitly written down in a dedicated `document`. Each User Story should, in some way, follow the following structure:

- **Title**
  - An explicit title.
- **Narrative**
  - A **_short introductory_** section with the following structure:
    - `As a`: the person or role who will benefit from the feature
    - `I want`: the feature
    - `so that`: the benefit or value of the feature
- **Acceptance criteria**
  - A **_description_** of each specific scenario of the narrative with the following structure:
    - `Given`: the initial context at the beginning of the scenario, in one or more clauses
    - `When`: the event that triggers the scenario
    - `Then`: the expected outcome, in one or more clauses


Example:

**Title**: Returns and exchanges go to inventory.
<br><br>
**As a** store owner,
**I want** to add items back to inventory when they are returned or exchanged,
**so that** I can track inventory.
<br><br>
**Scenario 1**: Items returned for refund should be added to inventory.
**Given** that a customer previously bought a black sweater from me
**and** I have three black sweaters in inventory,
**when** they return the black sweater for a refund,
**then** I should have four black sweaters in inventory.
<br><br>
**Scenario 2**: Exchanged items should be returned to inventory.
**Given** that a customer previously bought a blue garment from me
**and** I have two blue garments in inventory
**and** three black garments in inventory,
**when** they exchange the blue garment for a black garment,
**then** I should have three blue garments in inventory
**and** two black garments in inventory.


## Resources

### Java

#### [JBehave](https://jbehave.org/)
[Tutorial, Github](https://github.com/jbehave/jbehave-tutorial)

Input document that JBehave reads.
JBehave recognizes the terms `Given` (as a precondition which defines the start of a scenario), `When` (as an event trigger) and `Then` (as a postcondition which must be verified as the outcome of the action that follows the trigger).

```
src
    main
    test
        java
            com
                quanpan302
                    bdd
                        "package-info.java"
                        "CellGame.java",   import net.serenitybdd.jbehave.SerenityStories;
                        "CellSteps.java",  import org.junit.Assert.*;
        resources
            com
                quanpan302
                    bdd
                        "cell_game.story"
```

Input file that JBehave reads.

```java
// cell_game.story

Given a 5 by 5 game
When I toggle the cell at (3, 2)
Then the grid should look like
.....
.....
.....
..X..
.....
When I toggle the cell at (3, 1)
Then the grid should look like
.....
.....
.....
..X..
..X..
When I toggle the cell at (3, 2)
Then the grid should look like
.....
.....
.....
.....
..X..
```

Java script that JBehave executes.

```java
// CellSteps.java
private Game game;
private StringRenderer renderer;

@Given("a $width by $height game")
public void theGameIsRunning(int width, int height) {
    game = new Game(width, height);
    renderer = new StringRenderer();
    game.setObserver(renderer);
}
    
@When("I toggle the cell at ($column, $row)")
public void iToggleTheCellAt(int column, int row) {
    game.toggleCellAt(column, row);
}

@Then("the grid should look like $grid")
public void theGridShouldLookLike(String grid) {
    assertThat(renderer.asString(), equalTo(grid));
}
```

### [Selenium](https://www.selenium.dev/)
[Team, Github](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ)

**Selenium** automates browsers.

### Javascript

#### [Karma](http://karma-runner.github.io/latest/index.html)
[Team, Github](https://github.com/karma-runner)

{% include embed.html id="MVw8N3hTfCI" %}

#### [Protractor](http://www.protractortest.org/#/), Angular
[Team, Github](https://github.com/angular)

{% include embed.html id="p8ENoeZENhk" %}
