---
title: "Node.js"
categories:
  - SD
tags:
  - Javascript
  - Management
  - Package
  - Module
last_modified_at: 2016-01-03T12:00:00-10:00
---

**Node.js** is a JavaScript runtime built on the [V8 JavaScript engine](https://v8.dev/).

## [ECMAScript](https://tc39.es/ecma262/)

ECMAScript is an object-oriented programming language for performing computations and manipulating computational objects within a host environment. 

## [WebAssembly](https://webassembly.github.io/spec/core/)

At its core, WebAssembly is a _virtual instruction set architecture (virtual **ISA**)_. As such, it has many use cases and can be embedded in many different environments. 

## [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/)

When you sign up for an npm user account or create an Org, you are granted a scope that matches your user or Org name. You can use this scope as a namespace for related packages. The scope name is everything between the `@` and the slash `/`, ex. `@npm/package-name`.

- Adapt packages of code for your apps, or incorporate packages as they are.
- Download standalone tools you can use right away.
- Run packages without downloading using npx.
- Share code with any npm user, anywhere.
- Restrict code to specific developers.
- Create Orgs (organizations) to coordinate package maintenance, coding, and developers.
- Form virtual teams by using Orgs.
- Manage multiple versions of code and code dependencies.
- Update applications easily when underlying code is updated.
- Discover multiple ways to solve the same puzzle.
- Find other developers who are working on similar problems and projects.

### Package

A package is a file or directory that is described by a `package.json` file. A package must contain a `package.json` file in order to be published to the npm registry. For more information on creating a `package.json` file.

- A folder containing a program described by a `package.json` file.
- A gzipped tarball containing (a).
- A URL that resolves to (b).
- A `<name>@<version>` that is published on the registry with (c).
- A `<name>@<tag>` that points to (d).
- A `<name>` that has a `latest` tag satisfying (e).
- A `git` url that, when cloned, results in (a).

### Module

A module is any file or directory in the `node_modules` directory that can be loaded by the Node.js `require()` function.

- A folder with a `package.json` file containing a `"main"` field.
- A folder with an `index.js` file in it.
- A JavaScript file.

## Modules, [v13.x](https://nodejs.org/docs/latest-v13.x/api/)

- Assertion Testing
- Async Hooks
- Buffer
- C++ Addons
- C/C++ Addons with N-API
- Child Processes
- Cluster
- Command Line Options
- Console
- Crypto
- Debugger
- Deprecated APIs
- DNS
- Domain
- ECMAScript Modules
- Errors
- Events
- File System
- Globals
- HTTP
- HTTP/2
- HTTPS
- Inspector
- Internationalization
- Modules
- Net
- OS
- Path
- Performance Hooks
- Policies
- Process
- Punycode
- Query Strings
- Readline
- REPL
- Report
- Stream
- String Decoder
- Timers
- TLS/SSL
- Trace Events
- TTY
- UDP/Datagram
- URL
- Utilities
- V8
- VM
- WASI
- Worker Threads
- Zlib

## Installation

[gyp: No Xcode or CLT version](https://medium.com/flawless-app-stories/gyp-no-xcode-or-clt-version-detected-macos-catalina-anansewaa-38b536389e8d)

```bash
xcode-select --print-path

sudo rm -r -f /Library/Developer/CommandLineTools

xcode-select --install
```
